## 6. Predicate Spec

A `_predicate/spec` is set of smart functions that are attached to a particular predicate. Any time that predicate appears in a transaction, regardless of who issues the transaction, the smart functions attached to the `_predicate/spec` will execute.

If all of the smart functions return `true`, the transaction will succeed. If any of the smart functions return `false`, it will fail.

When you add a function to a predicate, it cannot take any parameters.

### Predicate Spec Using Universal Functions

If you add a function using only universal functions, (unless using functions like random or now) that predicate will always return the same result. For example: 

```
[{
    "_id": "_fn$alwaysTrue",
    "name": "alwaysTrue",
    "code": "(== 13 (add3 10))",
    "doc": "I always return true"
},
{
    "_id": ["_predicate/name", "person/handle"],
    "spec": ["_fn$alwaysTrue"],
    "specDoc": "I always return true"
}]
```

Adding the above function to the `_predicate/spec` for `person/handle` is relatively useless, because the function will always return `true`, therefore this smart function would never stop any type of transaction.

### Predicate Spec Using Context-Dependent Functions

When adding a function that includes context-dependent functions your smart function will be able to control who makes an update or the value in that update.

For example, this function make sure `person/favNums` is non-negative, but using `?o`, which returns the object of our predicate.

```
[{
    "_id": "_fn$nonNegative?",
    "name": "nonNegative?",
    "doc": "Checks that a value is non-negative",
    "code": "(<= 0 (?o))"
},
{
    "_id": ["_predicate/name", "person/favNums"],
    "spec": ["_fn$nonNegative?"]
}]
```

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Give Examples</h3>
<p>Thinking about the smart functions you've seen so far, what are some examples of functions you could add to predicates?</p>
<p>Try thinking about your own examples before clicking "Get Solution" to see the examples we've listed. </p>
</div>