# 8. Wikidata Introduction

Wikidata is a triple-store dataset used by Wikimedia Projects, such as Wikipedia. You can use SPARQL to query Wikidata. (Note: not all SPARQL options supported by Wikidata are supported by Fluree's SPARQL interface).

All information in Wikidata is based on subject-predicate-object triples, just like Fluree.

All subjects, predicates, and objects can be referred to by a unique id.

Items (subjects and objects) are uniquely identified by `Q` followed by a number. They should be prefixed with `wd:`. For example, `wd:Q146` is "house cat".

Predicates are referred to by `P` followed by a number. They should be prefixed with `wdt:`. For example, `wdt:P31` is "instance of".

Objects can also be a literal value (i.e. 335), depending on the query.

The following query selects all house cats in the ledger.

```sparql
SELECT ?cat
WHERE
{
  ?cat wdt:P31 wd:Q146.
}
```

The first four items in the results are wd:Q378619, wd:Q498787, wd:Q677525, and wd:Q851190. By default, we get the Qids for the items in our SELECT clause.

If we want to return a variable's label, simply SELECT from that variable followed by label. For example to select `?cat` labels, include `?catLabel` in your select clause.

```sparql
SELECT ?cat ?catLabel
WHERE
{
  ?cat wdt:P31 wd:Q146.
}
```

English labels are automatically returned (there is an option to <a href="/docs/query/sparql#language-labels" target="_blank">change languages,</a> but that is not covered in this lesson). The above query works in Fluree, because behind-the-scenes, we add the proper clause to include labels. The above query, however would not work in Wikidata without adding a service label for language (see <a href="https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/SPARQL/SERVICE_-_Label">Wikidata documentation on that here</a>).

## Wikidata

If you intend to use Wikidata extensively for your project, we recommend seeking out additional resources to learn about Wikidata. Wikidata is a tremendously large project, and for serious use (more than pulling in information for one or two queries), we recommend:

1. Watching <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:A_Gentle_Introduction_to_Wikidata_for_Absolute_Beginners_(including_non-techies!).webm" target="_blank">A Gentle Introduction to Wikidata for Absolute Beginners</a> and additional resources on the <a href="https://www.wikidata.org/" target="_blank">Wikidata site</a>.

2. Testing queries with the <a href="https://query.wikidata.org/" target="_blank">Wikidata SPARQL interface</a>

You can issue SPARQL queries using the Fluree interface, and you can issue Wikidata queries on <a href="https://query.wikidata.org/" target="_blank">their own SPARQL interface</a>. The Wikidata interface is useful, because it has examples, links to resources, and auto-complete features that help you find the exact Q- and P-ids you need.

## Challenge

The challenge at the end of this lesson will involve the following query:

```sparql
SELECT ?name ?artist ?artwork
WHERE {
    ?person     fd:person/handle        "jdoe";
                fd:person/favArtists    ?artist.
    ?artist     fd:artist/name          ?name.
    ?artwork    wdt:P170                ?creator.
    ?creator    wd:?label               ?name.
}
```

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Questions!</h3>
<p>1. In the challenge query, which variable will return a Wikidata Q-id, instead of a label?</p>
<ul>
    <li>a. ?name</li>
    <li>b. ?artist</li>
    <li>c. ?artwork</li>
</ul>
<p>2. What do you need to add to the select clause in the challenge query in order display WikidataLabels?</p>
<p>3. What is the general idea behind what the challenge query doing (you don't need to understand every triple in the query)?</p>
<p>The solution will appear when you click "Get Solution".</p>
</div>
