### Note

The names of some of these files have changed in version 0.10.0 (formerly 0.9.5). The Fluree .jar file is `fluree_server.jar`, the properties file is `fluree_sample.properties`, and the start script is `./fluree_start.sh`.

### Transcript
If you have a Mac, and you have Homebrew installed, then you can use Homebrew to download Fluree. On Homebrew, Fluree is a third-party repository, which is called a tap. So, in order to install Fluree, we have to "tap" into it, and then we can install it. 

The first thing we need to do is open up a new terminal. Then we tap into Fluree via `brew tap fluree/flureedb`. 

`fluree` is the name of our GitHub account, and `flureeDB` is the name of the relevant repository. After you press enter, Homebrew might have to update, and then it will tap into Fluree. 

At this point we can install it via `brew install fluree/flureedb/flureedb`. Now, it's going to install Fluree, unzip the folder, and we will see a beer icon appear with the location of our Fluree. 

We can ```cd``` into that folder, and if we list the contents that folder (```ls```), we see everything that we expect: a shell script to launch our instance of Fluree, `flureeDB.jar` which contains the actual jar file, `flureeDB.properties`, which is to configure our instance of Fluree. 

And we can run Fluree in the way that we would run it if we downloaded it any other way. By `./flureeDB_transactor.sh`. 

Because we just installed Fluree, this is going to start up our instance from scratch. It is creating a new network, it is creating new databases, and when it is ready, it will log, `Starting web server on port: 8080`. 

At this point, you can issue API requests to the relevant endpoints, you can look at the user interface on localhost:8080, and you can do all the things you would do with the regular instance of Fluree. 

But in this case, I'm just going to close out of it with `ctrl + c`. And I'll see again, that if I list all of my items in my folder that I have everything that I expect, but I have two new additional items. One is `fdbdata` and the other is `default_private_key.txt`. 

`fdbdata` is a folder that actually contains all my Fluree databases. And `default_private_key` is the default private key that signs all of my transactions. This means that if I chose to delete Fluree off of my Homebrew, then it is also going to delete my actual databases and my default private key. 

So if you choose to delete Fluree from Homebrew and you want to keep your databases, you need to make sure that you put both that private key and that folder in a different location, otherwise you are going to lose your databases. 

So, I'm going to show you how to uninstall. So assuming, we don't want to save our databases or maybe I already have saved a backup. This is how, if I want to uninstall Fluree completely, I can do so. I can just do: `brew uninstall fluree/flureedb/flureedb`. It's the exact opposite of the install command. And then I need to get out of that folder, because that folder will no longer exist (`cd ~`), and I can untap via `brew untap fluree/flureedb`. 

And that's all there is to it. 