### Transcript 

In this section of videos, I'm going to show you how to create a schema in Fluree. The schema is the basic skeleton of your ledger. In the case of relational ledgers, which is the type of ledgers that most people are familiar with, a schema is made up of tables and the columns in those tables. 

In the case of Fluree, we have something a little bit different. We have collections and predicates. 

Collections are the things in our ledger. For example, people, buildings. Any sort of thing that we want to store information about should have it's own collection. 

And the predicates are features of those things. If we're talking about people, maybe person full name, phone number, t-shirt color, I don't know, all the different sort of features that we want to store information about in that collection should have a predicate. 

In this section, we're going to create a schema for a chat application. In that schema, we're going to have four collections: person, chat, comment, and artist. And the person collection is going to have the following predicates - a full name, a handle, follows - which will reference all the different people that that person follows, that person's favorite numbers, and that person's favorite Artists. And favorite artists will reference that artist collection. 

We will also have a chat collection, which will have message - that actual text of that chat-, person - who left that message, comments - which is a reference to the comments collection, and will have a list of all the comments left on that particular chat message-, and instant- which is when that chat was left. For comment, we'll have message- again, the text of that comment-, and person- who left that comment. And, finally, for artist, we'll just have name.

In the next section, we'll actually be writing the code to create these collections and predicates, but this is a little preview of how that is going to look. 

