### Transcript (Note: code is listed below this section)

In this video, we're going to be creating the schema we talked about in the last video. In order to do this, you need to have Fluree installed, you need a fresh ledger to work with, and you need access to your user interface. If you don't know how to do any of these things, I've left links in the description of this video, so you can get up to speed. 

Once we're in our user interface, we need to select the ledger we want to work with, and then click, "FlureeQL". On this page, we can interact with our ledgers using the FlureeQL syntax. We want to make sure that transact is selected, and then I'm going to hide "History", just so we have a little bit more space to work with. 

Your user interface might look a little bit different than mine if you have a different version, but all of the code should be the same. 

Every transaction has to be inside of square brackets (`[` and `]`). Inside of those square brackets, there can be as many items as we want. And those items are inside of curly brackets (`{` and `}`). 

Every single transactions has to have an `_id` key, and some sort of value. The value for that `_id` key is either going to reference an existing subject in our ledger or the type of new subject that we want to create. In this case, we're creating a new collection, and we're going to give that collection a name, 'person'. 

I'm going to do some copy paste magic in order to create my next three collections. And we're going to create a 'chat' collection, a 'comment' collection, and an 'artist' collection. Let's see if I can zoom in a little bit. 

Those collections all need predicates, so we need that key of `_id`, we need `_predicate`, which is the type of thing that we're creating, and every predicate needs to have a name. 
 
So, this is going to be `person/handle`.  So, notice that I didn't just type handle, I put `person/handle` and that is because every predicate needs to be namespaced by the collection that it belongs to. And by namespaced, I just mean that it is prefexied with the name of that collection.


We also need to specify the type that our predicate is. So, in the case of person/handle, our type is going to be `string`, meaning that it is text.

And we are also going to add another feature for that predicate, letting our ledger know that we want that predicate to be unique.  People in our ledger can have the same full name, maybe the same favorite artists... anything that they want, but we want to make sure that their handle is unique. 

And next we are going to create the `person/fullName` predicate, and like the handle, it is going to be of type string, a text.  But it doesn't have to be unique, so I am going to take out 'unique' from that. And now I am going to create my `person/favNums`, and in that case I don't want my numbers to be strings, I want them to be numbers, so a type `int`, which stands for integer. And it is going to be a 'multi-predicate', so we have favNums, not just favNum - because people can have more than one favorite number.  So we want to set this `multi` flag to `true`.

The next thing we have is `favArtists`. So, this type is going to be of type `ref`, meaning it is a reference. And we want a person's favorite artists to only reference a particular type of subject in our ledger. So, we are going to restrict the collection to `artist`.  We don't want a person to list another person in their favorite artists, we don't want them to list a chat message in their favorite artists. We want to restrict the type of things that a person can put into their favorite artists - to just artists. And then `multi` is going to be set to true, because a person can have more than one favorite artist.

And then finally, for the `person` collection, we need to have a predicate for 'person/follows', so this is also going to be of type `ref`, it is a reference. And we are going to restrict the collection to `person`.  So, a person, we only want a person to follow other people. Now we are done with the person collection, and we are going to create our 'chat' predicates.

So, the first one is `chat/message`, and that is going to be of type `string`. Next `chat/person`, is going to be of type `ref`, it is a reference. And we are going to restrict the collection to `person`. Next is `chat/instant`- so Fluree actually has a built in predicate type for `instant`, so this can just be an instant. And then finally for chat we will also have `chat/comments`, and you might have guessed it -0 this isn't a type string, it is a type `ref`. It is a refence to the comments collection, so we only want `chat/comments` to reference comments.

The next predicate that we are going to create is going to be `comment/message`, and that is goiong to be of type `string`. And we will have `comment/person`, which will be of type `ref` and we will restricted the collection to 'person'. And then last, but not least, we are going to have a predicate for `artist/name`, and that is going to be of type `string`, and we are going to set that to `unique` and unique is `true`.

Then we are going to make sure that our syntax is correct. So you will see that if I have a hanging ',' - we will have a little "x-mark" here to let us know that we have something wrong. If we don't have a close quotation mark, we will also have an error. So, just make sure that you don't have any errors. And also I am going to post this code down below, so you will be able to see it.

I am going to zoom out, so that we can see what happens. So, now we have our full schema, in our transaction. We have "Transact" selected, and we can just press this "play" button and our schema should go through.

And there we go, and your results may look different than mine, and again based on the configuration of your ledger and what version you are running.  In this case, I am just returning the flakes - which is something we will talk about later, but these are the facts that we are assering at this point in time.

If you are in your user interface, you can go over to "Schema", you can actually see that the collections that we just created (and maybe some that you had there before) and the predicates that we just created are all there.

### Code

```
[{
    "_id": "_collection",
    "name": "person"
},
{
    "_id": "_collection",
    "name": "chat"
},
{
    "_id": "_collection",
    "name": "comment"
},
{
    "_id": "_collection",
    "name": "artist"
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "person/handle",
    "type": "string",
    "unique": true
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "person/fullName",
    "type": "string"
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "person/favNums",
    "type": "int",
    "multi": true
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "person/favArtists",
    "type": "ref",
    "restrictCollection": "artist",
    "multi": true
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "person/follows",
    "type": "ref",
    "restrictCollection": "artist",
    "multi": true
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "chat/message",
    "type": "string"
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "chat/person",
    "type": "ref",
    "restrictCollection": "person"
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "chat/instant",
    "type": "instant"
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "chat/comments",
    "type": "ref",
    "restrictCollection": "comment"
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "comment/message",
    "type": "string"
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "comment/person",
    "type": "ref",
    "restrictCollection": "person"
},
{
    "_id": "_predicate",
    "name": "artist/name",
    "type": "string",
    "unique": "true"
}]```