## 5. Multiple Triples - Part 2

If two triples contain the same subject, then we can shorten the triples by using a semicolon `;` after the first clause and omitting the subject in all subsequent triples that share a subject. Make sure that the final clause in the group is has a period . at the end.

For example:
```
WHERE {
  ?person fd:person/handle "jdoe";
          fd:person/fullName ?fullName;
          fd:person/favNums  ?favNums.
}
```

If two triples contain the same subject and the same predicate, then we can shorten the triples by using a comma `,` after the first clause and omitting both the subject and predicate in all subsequent clauses that share both a subject and a predicate. Spacing, tabs, and new-lines do not effect the result of the query. In the examples, we write both objects on the same line for readability.

```
WHERE {
  ?person fd:person/handle "jdoe", "zsmith".
}
```

Now that you've gotten a handle on multiple triples in a SPARQL query, we'll show you several SPARQL queries, and your challenge will be to decide what these queries return. All the below queries use the <a href="/docs/getting-started/basic-schema" target="_blank">Basic Schema</a>.

Query 1:
```
SELECT ?person ?artistName
WHERE {
    ?person fd:person/handle "jdoe";
            fd:person/favArtists ?artist.
    ?artist fd:artist/name ?artistName.
}
```

Query 2:
```
SELECT ?handle1 ?handle2
WHERE {
    ?person1    fd:person/handle    ?handle1;
                fd:person/favNums   -2.
    ?person2    fd:person/fullName  "Zach Smith";
                fd:person/handle    ?handle2. 
}
```

Query 3:
```
SELECT ?handle
WHERE {
    ?person     fd:person/handle    ?handle1;
                fd:person/favNums   -2, 0. 
}
```

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Test Your Knowledge!</h3>

<p>1. What does Query 1 return?</p>
<ul>
    <li>a. &nbsp;&nbsp;All persons and all person's favorite artists. </li>
    <li>b. &nbsp;&nbsp;All favorite artists</li>
    <li>c. &nbsp;&nbsp;Jdoe's favorite artists</li>
    <li>d. &nbsp;&nbsp;Jdoe's subject id and favorite artists</li>
</ul>
<p>2. What does Query 2 return?</p>
<ul>
    <li>a. &nbsp;&nbsp;The handle for any person who has a favorite number, -2, and a full name, "Zach Smith".</li>
    <li>b. &nbsp;&nbsp;The handle for any person with -2 as a favorite number, and the handle of any person with "Zach Smith" as a full name./ </li>
    <li>c. &nbsp;&nbsp;All the handles in the ledger.</li>
    <li>d. &nbsp;&nbsp;None of the above.</li>
</ul>
<p>3. What does Query 3 return?</p>
<ul>
    <li>a. &nbsp;&nbsp;The handle for any person with the favorite numbers -2 and 0.</li>
    <li>b. &nbsp;&nbsp;The handle for any person with the favorite number -2, and the handle for any person with the favorite number 0. </li>
    <li>c. &nbsp;&nbsp;The handle for any person with the favorite number -2 or 0.</li>
</ul>
<p>The solutions that will appear when you click "Get Solution".</p>
</div>