## 5. Elliptic-Curve Cryptography in Fluree

Elliptic-curve cryptography requires a network to use a very specific shape (an elliptic curve). In Fluree, we use the `secp256k1` curve. 

A user that wants to participate in a Fluree network chooses a private key. Almost any number under 256 bits is a valid private key  (<a href="/docs/identity/public-private-keys#features-of-the-secp256k1-curve" target="_blank">restrictions listed here</a>).

The user then inputs their private key into the `secp256k1` curve, and gets a public key. It is very easy to get a public key from a private key. It is virtually impossible to go backwards. 

Elliptic curve + private key -----easy------> public key
Elliptic curve + public key XXXXXXXX-impossible-XXXXX-| private key

### Auth Id
Once you have a public key, you hash the public key with SHA2-256 and then RIPEMD-160. This gives you a string that you can use as an auth id in Fluree. 

When you submit a signature with your transaction in Fluree, if the signature does not correspond to a valid `_auth/id` in the ledger, it is rejected.

### Block Metadata

There are two signatures in block metadata. Neither are included in the block hash. 

1. `_tx/sig`

When a user submits a transaction, they sign their transaction with their private key. 

```
[ -25, 107, "1b3045022100e1086f4399b46360f35955a057f254c1aec0c4868696de8c5c4d9b04ff8523ae0220328350a24075c3fa2ea1aaa32be88093378b9b7f7f5825040cbe58d303cf7b3a", -25, true, null ]
``` 
The above flake that contains `_tx/sig` from Lesson 3. 

2. `_block/sigs`

Multiple transactors can sign a block. Each transactor uses their private key to sign a block. This, in effect, is their assertion that the block is valid. All

```
[ -26, 7, "1c304402202e93e0e42faa01e4d8c6404ce656f3e562fbc095644cd0a810b46c0112e0c8280220494083304a0c9164ca2b1ffcdb8cf9a07ad233f6d9090df9b55906483046dd2a", -26, true, null ]
``` 

The above flake that contains `_block/sigs` from Lesson 3. 

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Question!</h3>
<p>Which of the following statements are true? Choose one or more.</p>
<ul>
    <li>a. A private key is inputted into an elliptic curve to get a public key.</li>
    <li>b. Fluree uses RSA Cryptography</li>
    <li>c. A public key is inputted into an elliptic curve to get a private key.</li> 
    <li>d. Valid public keys should be stored in Fluree as `_auth/id`s</li>
    <li>e. A string derived from valid public keys should be stored in Fluree as `_auth/id`s</li>
</ul>
</div>

