### Transcript

Now that you learned how to create a schema- create collections and create predicates. It is up to you to create your very own schema. I'm going to give you a schema challenge. 

For this challenge, you're going to be creating a database schema for a human resources application. There is going to be lots of different ways to create this schema, so I want you to be creative and think about how you would build this if you were to build it yourself. 

So, a human resources application might have information about employees, employee salaries, departments, things of that nature.

Your schema should have at least four collections, and each collection should have at least two predicates. In addition, you should use at least two `ref` type predicates. Not for each collection, but in your whole schema. So remember, `ref` is reference. It's a reference to a subject in a different collection. So for example, I might have an `employee/department` predicate,  which is a `ref` type, and I restrict the collection for that predicate to department. So, in `employee/department`, I have a reference to that particular department. That's just an example, you don't have to have employees or departments in your particular human resources application. That's up to you. 

And finally, you need to use a predicate predicate we haven't used before. So think back to the last video where I showed you where to find the documentation on predicates, and takae look in the documentation. What other features of predicates could you include in this example. So for example, `_predicate/component` take a look at what that might be. I wouldn't recommend you use `_predicate/spec` or `_predicate/specDoc`, because those are a little bit more complicated, but you're welcome to try if you're interested, but like I said, that is going to take a bit more work. 

And finally, in the next video, I'm going to show you how I created my schema. Now my schema is not going to look like your schema is, but it should give you an idea of one way to solve this challenge. 