## 10. Add vote Smart Function

Now, we have a smart function, `voteWhere`. This function returns a string with the relevant where clause. If we use this where clause in a query, we will be able to look up the results of the proposed vote for the relevant subject, predicate, and object we are updating. 

Remember, the following query will return the votes for the change connected to subject: 21474837482, predicate: 50, and object "hardCell".

```
{
    "select": [ { "change/vote": ["*"]}],
    "where": "change/subject = 21474837482 AND change/predicate = 50 AND change/object = \"hardCell\""
}
```
We will create smart function that replicates this query. We will call the function, `vote` as you see below. 

```
[{
        "_id": "_fn",
        "name": "vote",
        "code": "SMART FUNCTION HERE"
}]
```

It is your job to write the smart function code. 

There is a built-in universal smart function, `query`, that takes the following arguments: `select-string`, `from-string`, `where-string`, `block-string`, `limit-string`.

We only need to specify a `select-string` and a `where-string`. For any arguments we don't need to specify, we can just write `nil`. 

- `select-string`: For the select string, we will have to escape quotation marks, or, optionally, we can put the entire select string in between `\"` and `\"`, and simply omit all of the quotation marks. For example, to select * from collections, our smart function would be: `(query \"[*]\" \"_collection\" nil nil nil)
- `from-string`: nil
- `where-string`: We can use the function we wrote in our last lesson with `(voteWhere)`
- `block-string`: nil
- `limit-string`: nil

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Write The Code for vote</h3>
<br/>
<p>Follow the instructions above to write the code for vote.</p>
<p>Remember, if you get stuck, you can click on the "Get Solution" button to see the answer.</p>
</div>
<br/>
<br/>
