## 9. Add voteWhere Smart Function

That's right... there's nothing stopping Soft Cell from changing their username without a vote.

If we decide that users cannot change their usernames without a vote, then we need to add a smart function to the `_user/username` predicate. 

For example, let's say Soft Cell issues the below transaction:

```
[{
    "_id": ["_user/username", "softCell"],
    "username": "hardCell"
}]
```

To decide whether that is valid, our smart functions need to:

1. Try and find a proposed change (a subject in the `change` collection) for the subject, `["_user/username", "softCell"]`, the predicate `_user/username`, and the object `hardCell`.
2. If there is a proposed change, we'll need the smart function to look up the number of yes and no votes.
3. Finally, the smart function needs to have guidance on what is required to pass a vote (i.e. a majority of votes, or 10 yes votes regardless of the number of no votes).  
4. If the vote threshhold is met, the function should return `true` and allow the transaction to go through. Otherwise, it should return `false` and stop the transaction from happening. 

We'll start by working on part 1 - try to find the relevant change.

If we were to issue a query for the relevant change, it would like the following, assuming `21474837482` was the relevant subject id and `50` was the subject id for the relevant predicate.

```
{
    "select": [ { "change/vote": ["*"]}],
    "where": "change/subject = 21474837482 AND change/predicate = 50 AND change/value = \"hardCell\""
}

/*
Note: Unique two-tuples are not currently supported in where clauses, but this will not be an inconvenience for us in this smart function. 
*/
```

For the select clause, we use `[{ "change/vote": ["*"]}]`, because we only care about returning the information about the vote in our change, not the other predicates for the change. 

In order to maximize legibility, we will create a smart function that simply returns the proper value of the where clause as a string, i.e. `"change/subject = 21474837482 AND change/predicate = 50 AND change/value = \"hardCell\""`. We will subsequently be using this smart functions in other smart functions. 

```
[{
    "_id": "_fn",
    "name": "voteWhere",
    "code": "SMART FUNCTION CODE HERE"
}]
```

To concatenate multiple strings, we can use the `str` function, which takes an infinite number of string arguments (or function arguments that return strings).

We want the function to return something like 
`"change/subject = 21474837482 AND change/predicate = 50 AND change/object = \"hardCell\""`, except we need to replace 21474837482, 50, and \"hardCell\" with relevant smart functions, so that the results of `?voteWhere` are dynamic, and match the proposed change. 

Note that because `_fn/code` is a string type predicate, we have to escape all quotation marks. 

You'll need several of the following <a href="" target="_blank">Context-Dependent Smart Functions</a> to write the smart function code. Note, you may not need all of these functions:

- `(?sid)`: The `_id` for the subject being updated.
- `(?p)`: All of the predicates of the predicate being updated, returned as a map. 
- `(?pid)`: The `_id` of the predicate being updated.
- `(?auth_id)` : The `_id` of the auth making the update.
- `(?user_id)` : The `_id` of the user making the update.
- `(?o)`: The object (value) of the predicate that is being edited.


<div class="challenge">
<h3>Write The Code for voteWhere</h3>
<br/>
<p>Follow the instructions above to write the code for voteWhere.</p>
<p>Remember, if you get stuck, you can click on the "Get Solution" button to see the answer.</p>
</div>
<br/>
<br/>
