### Transcript

Just as we can crawl relationships forward, we can also crawl them in reverse. So let's go back to our basic schema and when I `"select":["*"], "from": "chat"`, I see that there is a predicate called "chat/person". But when I `"select":["*"], "from": "person"`, I don't see the chat messages from any of the people. But I can, however, still get all of the chats for which a person is referenced by selecting `["*"], "from": "person"`. And I do this by expanding my array here and doing the same thing as I did when I crawled the graph for `"chat/person"` except because I am crawling in reverse, I have to put an underscore in front of person. So I never change the order of this predicate name. I never do "person/chat" - that doesn't exist in my database, but "chat/person" does, but in order to tell FlureeDB that I am crawling this in reverse I have to put the underscore in front of person. So when I press "play", I see that one of my people 'jdoe' has a chat. And I see the 'chat/message' that "This is a sample chate from Jane!". I see the 'chat/instant', the 'chat/person', and the 'chat/comments'.

And I can even keep crawling that graph. So I am going to put this array with a wildcard on the second line, and I can expand this array again, just like I am doing here, I can expand it right here. And I can follow the relationship once more - except this time, I am following my relationship `"from": "person"` to `"chat/_person"` (crawling that graph in reverse) and then again forward to `"chat/person"`. So now we will see not only is my result showing me all of the predicates related to all the people, and the chats that those people are referenced in, but even deeper in the graph it is goping to show me the person in `"chat/person"`. Which is redundant, but you can see that we can kind of infinitely crawl the graph here. And instead if showing all the people, I am just going to select these predicates from Jane Doe. So that our results are a little cleaner and it is a little easier for us to see. So I am going to press "play", and I see (let me close a few of these items here) - so, this subject '_id' belongs to Jane Doe and even though there is no such predicate called "person/chat", we know that people are referenced in chat messages. So we crawl the graph in reverse with `"chat/_person"`- we get all of the predicates from "person", so here is our `"chat/message"`and here are all of the predicates for that chat. And then, because we crawled the graph one more time, we can see all of the predicates from `"person"`.

And we can even do this again. So I am going to put this wildcard on the next line, and I am going to keep crawling the graph. So again, I never change the order of the perdicate that I am looking at, but because I am going to be crawling in reverse again - I have to put the underscore in front of person and what that is basically going to do is inside of this person, I am going to crawl the graph to find the chats referencing this person. So again, this whole query is very redundant, but it just goes to show you that you can keep crawling the graph, both forward and backward. So, here is 'Jane Doe', here is "chat/_person", here are all of the predicates for the chat in which Jane is referenced here is the person who left that chat which is 'Jane Doe', and here again we are finding all of the chats that this person is referenced in.

And here we see another `"chat/person"` that is not expanded - so we could keep crawling the graph if we want, but it is getting a little bit redundant now. So, I will show you another example - so we know every person has favorite artists. So I am just going to select `["*"]` from 'Jane Doe' (I need square brackets around my wildcard). So, I see Jane Doe has favorite artists, but when I `"select": ["*"], "from": "artist"`, I don't see what people have listed those artists as their favorite artists. So what I can do is I can expand this `"select"` value, I can open up my curly braces, and I know that the predicate that I am looking for is `person/favArtists"`, and I want to see all the predicates for those subjects. But again, this is not a predicate that belongs to `"artist"`, it is a predicate that belongs to `"person"`. So I am crawling the graph in reverse, so I have to put this underscore here in front of `"_favArtists"`. And then I press "play", and I can see that for each artist (I am just kind of cleaning these results up a little bit). Ok, for each artist, not only do I see the artists name, but I also see all of the people that have that artist listed as their favorite artist.So, 'Gustav Klimt": we have 'Zach Smith and 'Jane Doe' - both Zach Smith and Jane Doe list Gustav Klimt as their favortie artist.

And I know that you have seen this a million times, but if I want to continue crawling the graph...so let's take a look at `"person/favArtists"`, I can expand the graph and see the full name of those favorite artists if I want, or all of the predicates of those artists - so that would be `"person/favArtists"`, but in this case I am crawling it forward, so I don't need an underscore. So, let's press "play", and I can even - remember how we crawled the graph backwards to get `"person/chat"`? Well I can not only crawl the graph backwards to get `"person/_favArtists"`, but I can also crawl the graph backwards to get `"person/_chat"`. And this might be a little confusing, but we have to find which level in our graph we are on - so not in `"artist"`, not in the top level, but in `"person/favArtists"`, on this second level. So right here, this is the list of all of the predicates that we want to display for our people and we want to add a new predicate, which is going to be `"chat/person"` and for that predicate, because that predicate does not belong to `"person"`, it belongs to `"chat"` - we need to put an underscore in front of person `"person"` (`"chat/_person"`). So now I press "play", and I can see that for every artist (we are going to just look at one artist), we find out which person has listed that artist as one of their favorite artists, and then for every person, we see what chats that person has left by crawling the graph backwards, and in addition, we see all of the information about their favorite artists. So, we crawled the graph three times here, both forward and backwards.
