### Transcript

Just as we can crawl relationships forward, we can crawl them in reverse. So let's go back to our basic schema, and when I `"select":["*"], "from": "chat"` - I see that there is a predicate called "chat/person". But when I `"select":["*"], "from": "person"`, I don't see the chat messages from any of the people. But I can however, get all of the chats in which a person is referenced by selecting start from person. And I do this by expanding my array here and doing the same thing that I did when I crawled the graph for "chat/person" except for that because I am crawling in reverse, I have to put an underscore (_) in front of person. So, I never change the order of this predicate name, I never do "person/chat" - that doesn't exist in my database. But "chat/person" does. But to in order to tell FlureeDB that I am crawling this in reverse, I have to put this underscore in front of person. So when I press "play", I see that one of my people 'jdoe' has a chat. And I see the chat message that she made, this is a sample chat from Jane. I see the "chat/person", the "chat/instant", the "chat/comment"s.

And I can even keep crawling that graph, so I am going to put this array with a wildcard on the second line and I can expand this array again, just like I am doing here, I can expand it right here. And I can follow the relationship once more, except this time, I am following my relationship from "person" to "chat/person" - so crawling that graph in reverse. And again, forward to "chat/person". So we will see, not only is my result showing me all of the predicates related to all of the people and the chats that those people are referenced in, but even deeper in the graph its going to show me the "person" in "chat/person". Which is redundant, but you can see that we can kind of infinitely crawl the graph here.

And instead of showing all of the people, I am just going to select these predicates from Jane Doe so that our results are a little cleaner and it's a little easier for us to see. So I a going to press "play", and I see...let me close a few of these items here - so, this subject id belongs to Jane Doe and even though there is no such predicate as "person/chat", we know that people are referenced in chat messages. So we crawl the graph in reverse with `"chat/_person"`, we get all of the predicates from person. So, here is our chat message, and her is all of our predicates for that chat. And then, because we crawled the graph even one more time, we can see all of the predicates from "person". And we can even do this again, so I am going to put this wildcard on the next line, and I am going to keep crawling the graph. So again, I never change the order of the predicate that I am looking at, but because I am going to be crawling the graph in reverse again, I am going to put the underscore in front of person and what that is basically going to do is inside of this person, I am going to crawl the graph to find the chats referencing this person.
