### Transcript

In FlureeDB, analytical queries allow you to write really complex queries involving
variable binding and queries across datasets. This video is only going to cover a small part of analytical queries in detail. 

I'm going to go over to our user interface, and our first analytical query will be fairly simple- it will have a `select` key and a `where` key. It is easier to understand analytical queries by looking at a `where` key first, or the value for a `where` key first. 

So `where` is a collection of tuples. So, I'm going to write just one tuple for this first query, and the tuple mirrors my flakes or RDF triples, which you might have seen in other videos. The first item in a tuple is a subject, the second is a predicate, and the third is an object. 

In this case, my subject is going to be a variable. All variables begin with a `?`, so it's going to be `?person`. My predicate is going to be `person/favNums`. So here, like in other locations, instead of using the predicate subject id, I can just use the predicate name. And the object is also going to be a variable, and so I have to start that variable with a `?`, and `?nums`. 

So for this first example, we're only go to use one tuple with a subject, a predicate, and an object, where my subject and my object are variables. 

And in `select`, I can select which variables I want to display in my results. So I'm going to `?person` display, and I'm going to have `?nums` display as well. 

When I press play, I get this array of arrays, and each array has a person, or a person subject id, and a favorite number. So we know that the person whose subject id ends in `7153` has a favorite number, `98`, and so on. 

So this is kind of not the most pretty, or easy to read resultset. If we go to our docs, we actually see there is an option for our analytical queries, `prettyPrint`. This defaults to false, and you might often want it to be false when you're just submitting these results, you're piping that straight into an application, but if you're looking at the results with your own human eyes, then you might want to use `prettyPrint`, and press enter. 

So pretty print, in addition to being easier to read takes a little bit more time, which is why it is not the default. But now you can see person, and that's their subject id, and nums, 98. 

So now we can add another tuple. We can use the same variable in more than one tuple, and that variable acts as a filter if applicable. In this case, the only thing I want, is I want, in addition to seeing that person's subject id, to see their handle. 

So I want the same people as showed up in this, as resulted from this tuple, to have handles in my next resultset. So my predicate is going to be `person/handle`, and I don't know what their handles are, and I don't want to filter by handle, so I have another variable that's going to be `?handle`. 

And I need a comma between my tuples, and I can add `?handle` to my `select` array. So now I see, `zsmith`, `nums`, `zsmith`, `nums`, `jdoe`, etc, etc.

So now, I want to mix things up a little bit, I want my results to be a little more complicated. I'm interested in finding out which favorite numbers are shared by both `jdoe` and `zsmith`. So instead of person, I'm going to do `?person1`, and this is going to be `?person1` as well, and instead of `?handle`, I'm going to change this to `jdoe`. 

So just bear with me here. Basically, what I'm doing (I'm just going to delete this [select clause]), basically what I'm doing is I'm going to bind `?person1` to the person that has the handle `jdoe`, and I'm binding `jdoe`'s favorite numbers to the variable `?nums`. 

And then, the second person, so this is going to look very similar, `?person2`, and `?person2` should have a handle of `zsmith!` or `zsmith` if you haven't changed that in yours. And I want `?person2` to have their favorite numbers bound to the `?nums` variable. 

So you notice that I use different numbers for my people, because there's no one subject in our database that has both a handle of `jdoe` and a handle of `zsmith`. It's not something we allow, but more than one person canhave the same favorite number. 

But if we bind that variable `?nums` to both `jdoe`'s and `zsmith`'s favorite numbers, then we are effectively filtering our database, or filtering our results, so that only favorite numbers shared by both of those people will show up in the results. 

And the only thing I want to see in my resultset is just which numbers are in both. And I'm actually going to remove thos hard brackets from around `?nums`, and you'll see how the results display. 

So in this case, there's just one favorite number shared between `jdoe` and `zsmith`. You'll see that if I have hard brackets around my `select` clause- I'll remove `prettyPrint` for this, then I have two sets of brackets around my resultset, which doesn't make a lot of sense when I only have one result displaying.

I'm going to return `prettyPrint` for the next items, so here we go, you see 1223, and it's just enclosed by one set of square brackets.


