### Transcript

Now that we've added a basic schema with some sample data, we can learn how to perform queries against that data. 

In Fluree, there are lots of different ways to query information. This video will show you some basic, few query types.

So these are the query types we're going to cover in this vide: selecting from a collection, selecting a single subject based on id, selecting from a subject using a unique two-tuple, selecting from a predicate, and selecting from a group of subjects. 

So, we're going to go over to our user interface, and I have this zoomed in here so we can see. We're going to hide history by toggling this history button. Or I'm going to hide history, just so it's easier to see what I'm typing, and I'm going to make sure to select "query" in my toolbar on top.

So like I mentioned, the first we can select from is just a single collection. So, all of the queries in this video are going to have, are going to be objects with a `select` key, and the value for that key is going to be this array with an asterisk, `*`, inside, and that just means select all predicates from the subjects that are being displayed in our results- just select everything. In later videos, we're going to see what we else we can do with this key-value pair, but for now, we're just going to select everything. 

And, the next key that every single query in this video is going to have is a `from` key. The value of that key is going to change depending on what we're looking at.

So, we can select, `*`, from any given collection, and we can also select, `*`, from `_collection`- just to see all of our collections. So, if you see the results here, there are lots and lots of different types of collections. And most of the collections, for now, at least, begin with an `_`, which means they're a built-in database collection, but there also are the collections we added ourselves- artist, comment, chat, person.

So, we can replace this `_collection` with `artist`, and when we press play, we'll be able to see all the artists that we added to our database. 

And if you don't see the artists, that might mean that you do not have the schema in there properly. We can also select, `*` from `person`, and you can see all the people that we added to our database. If I select, `*`, from something like `animal`, which is not a valid collection in our database, it's going to tell us, "Invalid Collection, Animal". 

So, we'll know if - if we select, `*` from something like `_user`, and we don't have any users, we're just going to get an empty array like this or an empty array with some statistics, depending on how your results display, and the way your results display depends on your version, but you'll get some sort of empty and status 200, something like that, in your results. But if input a collection that just doesn't exist, like select `*` from friend, you'll actually get an error. 

So, now what we can also do is select a subject using that subject's `_id`. So let's look at all of our people, select `*` from `person`, and you'll see that all of our people have an `_id` and some number after it. And, in fact, not just our people, but every single subject, every single item in our database has a unique `_id` that is created when that subject is created, and can never be changed, and is unique across the database. So no other subject has that unique id, so we can just select a single subject by doing select `*` from that id. So I copied this id from here, and we're going to see the results of this query. But let's quickly take a look at what we expect. We expect our results to just display a `person/handle` that's `zsmith`, a `person/fullName` that's `Zach Smith`, person favorite number, person favorite artist, etc. So, we're expecting our results to display this single results, so let's issue the transaction.

And that's what we get. We have `person/handle` `zsmith`, `person/fullName`, `Zach Smith`. So, we got the results for the particular subject that we expected to see. 

The next type of selection that you can do is select a subject using a unique two-tuple. So, if you've watched our schema videos, or you know about Fluree schemas, you know that predicates have certain features. And some of those predicates are unique, so for example, `artist/name`, says predicate unique true, which means that no artist - no two artists in our database can have the same name. 

Other predicates like `comment/person` don't specify that they're unique, and by default, predicates that don't specify that they're unique are not unique. So `comment/message` is not unique - there can be multiple messages with the same comment in our database - that's okay. `chat/comment` is not unique, `chat/instant` is not unique. `person/favNums` is not unique, but `person/handle` is another predicate that is in face unique. So we have `artist/name` and `person/handle`. 

So, we can look at all of our people again, and instead of specifying an id, we can specify a `person/handle`, and in order to do this, we need to create a tuple - in other language- in many languages- it's also called an array, a vector depending on what language you're using or you'r used to, but the first part of our tuple is the name of the predicate. So, in this case, the name of our predicate is going to be `person/handle`, and the second part of our tuple is the object of our predicate, so in this case, it's going to be `zsmith`. 

So now, we're just going to select the single subject - select all the predicates from a single subject - which has a `person/handle` equal to `zsmith`.

And you'll see why it's necessary to have a unique predicate, because if `person/handle` wasn't unique, then there could be multiple `zsmith`s in our database.  

And there are ways to filter our queries - using `where` clauses - for predicates that are not unique, but this particular syntax is expecting a result of a single subject, so now we select `*` from this unique two-tuple, `person/handle` `zsmith`. 

We press enter, and we see the results that we expect. And this is useful when we don't want to look up a subject's id before issuing a query, which is a really common thing. 

You don't always want to select `*` from person, look up that id,copy that id into the form. You sometimes you might know that you're looking for `person/handle` or `artist/name`, or something like that, and what that person's handle or artist's name is. 

We're going to issue another one. So that we have another subject in our database, with the handle `jdoe`, and you'll see select `*` from predicate name is the first part of our tuple, and the object of that predicate is the second part of our tuple, so `person/handle` `jdoe` will only give us back `jdoe`. And we know that `artist/name` is unique. 

So I'm not going to try to spell, `Jean-Paul Basquiat`, so I'm going to do another artist in our database, `artist/name` August Savage is also unique, and we'll see that that in fact is the artist that pops up. 

Alright, so the next that we can do is select from a single predicate. And instead of putting the predicate in a two-tuple, we can just select `*` from any predicate. 

And what this does is it will return any subject that contains that predicate. So, in this case, it's going to return all of our artists. But if we had an artist that didn't have a name, they would show up when we selected `*` from artist, but they wouldn't show up when we selected `*` from `artist/name`. 

And, so let's take a look at person, and we'll see that all of our people have all of our - we only have two people - and they all have all of the person predicates. So, let's just quickly create a new person, and again don't worry about the syntax here, this is just to display something. 

I'm going to put in my first initial and my last name here, but you can put in whatever. So this is just creating a new person, and if you don't know how to issue transactions yet, don't worry. Just copy and paste this transaction exactly, and again, your results might look different than mine, and I'm going to go back to query and select `*` from person. 

And now I see I have three people. I have `lpodlog`, I have `zsmith`, I have `jdoe`. So, when I select `*` from person, all the people in my database show up.

But I can also select `*` from `person/fullName` or any given predicate. And this will only show us the subjects in our database that have a `person/fullName` predicate. So, what do we expect- let's go to the bottom - we see that `jdoe` has a full name. `zsmith`, `Zach Smith` has a full name. `lpodlog` does not have a full name.

So when we select `*` from `person/fullName`, we shouldn't see `lpodlog` in our results, and when we press play, we - in fact- only see `zsmith` and `jdoe`. So `lpodlog` does not show up in our results, because that person does not have the predicate that we are selecting from. 

And this is useful in some circumstances. 

But finally, we can also select from a group of subjects, so we can select from a group of subjects by using an array - or a tuple- and inputting all the subjects ids into that tuple. 

So, we can select - I'm going to cut this - we can select `*` from person. I'm sorry- I'm going to select `*` from artist, actually. 

Okay, and then I'm going to paste this query that I was working on before, so select `*` from, and this was the subject id for one of our people, I don't remember which. I'm going to copy and paste the subject id for August Savage and put this in here. I'm going to copy and paste the subject id for Gustav Klimt and put this in here. 

And then I can also - so you can see I can mix and match subjects from different collections when I'm using this particular syntax. But I can use both subject ids and two-tuples in this particular query syntax. 

So I can, also include this unique two-tuple, and I'm going to copy and paste, Basquiat into there. So select `*` from this subject id, that subject id, and this other subject, which I specify not using the subject id, but using a two-tuple. 

So let's press play, and I'll see, okay, we have a subject whose id ends in 715, and 715- that's what we have here `zsmith`. We have a subject that ends in 10402. 10402, which is Augusta Savage, that's what we expect. We have a subject who's id ends in 10401, 10401 that's Gustav Klimt, and finally we have a subject that we specified using a unique two-tuple, of the artist name Jean-Michel Basquiat, and for the fourth item in our results, that's exactly who we have. 

So, just as a recap, these are some basic queries that you can perform. You can select every single subject that belongs to a given collection. ou can select a single subject using that subject's id. You can select a single subject using a unique two-tuple that applies to that subject. Or you can select a number of subjects that all contain a particular predicate, or finally, you can select a group of subjects by specifying an array of subject ids and unique two-tuples.
