### Transcript

History queries allow us to see the history of a subject or a set of subjects. Before we can talk about how to issue history queries, we need to talk about flakes.

Every single piece of data in Fluree is stored in the form of a flake. A flake is an assertion of a fact at a given point in time. 

And the first part, the first three items in a flake match up exactly to an RDF triple.

An RDF triple is a standard data format that's used throughout the internet, and an RDF triple is comprised of a subject, a predicate, and an object. 

The subject is the thing that we're talking about. The predicate is the feature of that thing, and the object is the value of that feature. 

So, for example, I can be the subject, and the predicate might be hair color, and the object would be brown. So, me, hair color, brown. 

And flakes have additional information, which we need to have, because in Fluree, we have a concept of time. But, in this video, we're going to be talking primarily about the first three parts of a flake, which is subject, predicate, object. 

So, I'm going to go over to my user interface, and I've issued a query select `["*"]` from person, showing me all of my people. 

And I'm going to select the subject id from one of my people. It is up to you what you select, and your subject ids are going to be different. But it's a good idea to select a subject with lots of different predicates, just so you have a lot of stuff to look at. 

And then we're going issue a history query. So we have select "History" in our dropdown. And history queries require us to have a "history" key, and the value of that key can be a lot of different things. But the simplest history query that we can issue is just the history of a subject. 

So, we can do history and the subject id. And that's going to give us all of the flakes pertaining to that subject. So, here is the subject, and you'll see that matches up with our flakes, subject, subject, subject. They all end in 715. 

The second item is the predicate, predicate, predicate.

The third item is the object of that predicate. 

And the fourth item, which we'll talk about a little bit later, is 't' or time. 

But you can see that here, we have - we don't have a predicate name, we have a predicate subject id, and this can be a little confusing at first, but remember that every single piece of information in Fluree, including the schema, is stored in the form of flakes. So there are flakes out there that have 1012 as the subject id, the predicate is `_predicate/name`, and the object of that predicate is `person/handle`. 

So 1012 pertains to `person/handle`, 1013 pertains to `person/fullName`, at least in my database. 

This is one type of history query that we can issue just be specifiying a subject id. 

And almost any place where we can specify a subject id, we can also use a two-tuple, a unique two-tuple in its stead. 

So, a unique two-tuple is an array with two items. The first item is the name of the predicate, and it has to be a unique predicate, and the second item is the object of that predicate. 

So, this and this are the same thing. And we can see that we get the same result if we issue this query here. The results don't change, because, what Fluree does when it looks at this query is it, goes "hmm", `["person/handle", "zsmith"]`, which subject does that pertain to, it know that that subject, it pertains to this subject id. 

Alright, so, the next, or a more complicated history query that we can issue actually involve us specifying the pattern of the flakes that we want returned. So, subject, predicate, object. We can issue a query where we specify any of these three items. And, we have to actually specify a subject or a predicate, but we don't have to specify an object. 

So, we can specifiy a particular subject. We can specify a particular predicate. And we can specify that predicate either using the predicate's subject id or using the predicate's name. And I'm not going to specify an object. So I can either put `null` or I can omit that part of the triple. 

So now when I issue this query, what I'm asking Fluree to do is find me any flakes that match this pattern. So, this is the subject, this is the predicate, and the object could be anything. 

So, we know that in my case, this flake, this flake, and this flake will match the pattern. But the rest of these flakes have the same subject, but have a different predicate, and they won't match the pattern. So we press play, and you'll see that, I get three flakes back.

And if you followed along with the basic schema in the previous videos, your results will look different than mine, and I'll explain why a little bit later. 

But I can also specify a particular object. So here, now I'm looking at only flakes that pertain to this subject, with this predicate, and this object. So this is the pattern I want Fluree to look for, and it returns only flakes that follow that pattern. 

So, remember I said earlier, you need to specify either a subject or a predicate. So, I can specify just a predicate and an object. If you're skipping a subject, then you need to put null there. Remember when we skipped an object, you can either put `null` or leave it blank, but if you're skipping something at the beginning of an array, you have to pull `null`, so Fluree knows you're skipping this subject. 

This should give it the same result, because there's only one person with that handle, but if I put `null` as the object, then I get a whole lot of other flakes, because now the only pattern that I'm telling Fluree to look for is look for flakes that have `person/handle` in the second position/ as the predicate. 

So again, this doesn't say `person/handle`, but we know that 1012  - and we can actually look this up real quick - is the predicate for `person/handle`. So there we go. The subject id for this subject is 1012, and the predicate name is `person/handle`. Great. 

So, that's our history query. We can also, and I'm just going to select my person `Zach Smith`. And let's take a look at the results

So, like I said my results are going to look different than yours, because I changed Zach Smith's handle from `zsmith` to `zsmith!`. And you can see this happen in my flakes. So, in Fluree, like I mentioned, we have extended RDF triples. So, the fourth item in our triple is actually t for time. And time is a negative number that increase, or decreases, so it gets lower and lower and lower, closer to negative infinity, as we issue more and more transactions. 

And every single block has several `t`s in it. So that's why we don't have the block integer, we actually have a `t`, which is a little bit more granular notion of time. So, basically, this is time. So at a given point in time, this subject had the handle `zsmith`. Later, at a later point in time, so t = -17, I changed that handle to `zsmith!`. So we see two things happen, one is this flake, assering 715's handle is `zsmith` was retracted. So here we go, this is our subject, this our predicate, this is our object, and at this point in time, it is false. At this point in time, and every future point in time, it is false. 

And at that same time, at t = 17, we asserted the new object for that handle. So 715's `person/handle` is `zsmith!` as of t = -17. 

And we can actually see this happening over time. So when we issue a history query, we can also optionally specify a block, and we have to provide a block integer. And that integer is the most recent block for which to include flakes.

So, as of block 1, I didn't have any people, I didn't have `person/handle`, so I get no results. As of block 6, I had `zsmith` and that's the only flake that showed up. 

But if I go all the way to block 9, and this might be different for your database, but here I'm in block 9. I see that I now have two additional flakes. 

So history queries are a really powerful tool, because they allow you to look not only at the history of a subject at a given point in time or throughout the whole history of that subject, but they also allow you to specify blocks, so you can see the changes at a particular point in time. 