### Transcript

Fluree is a graph-style database, which means that relationships are a primary features in this type of database. One thing that that allows you to do is to very easily crawl the graph for relationships. 

So, I'll give you an example of what that means. So for example, 
we can go to our user interface, and we can select `*` from chat. So, this is going to select all our chat messages. In our basic schema, we only have one chat message.

And `chat`, the collection has several predicates that are of type `ref`, which means they are references to other subjects in the database. 

So, for example, we have a `chat/person`, which is a reference to a person, and we have a `chat/comments`, which is reference to comments. 

In the case of `chat/person`, the only thing that we see when we query the results is an `_id`, we don't see any more information about that person. And this is true of all predicates that are of type `ref`, with the exception of predicates that are both type `ref` and are components.

So, in the case of `chat/comments`, we see all of the information about a comment, including that id. And that's because, comments are considered components of chats. In other words, when a chat is deleted, all of those comments are deleted. The comments don't stand on their own. 

In the case of person, however, `chat/person`, that person exists outside of that comment, and vice-versa. When we created our schema, we didn't specify `chat/person` as a component, because that doesn't make much sense. 

We can, however, select more information about the `chat/person`, and what we have to do is go into our select key and the value of that key, and we open up curly braces. And we need to put `chat/person` right here as the key, and the value of that key is going to be `[ "*" ]`. So what this is telling Fluree to do is to keep following the graph, so not only am I selecting all predicates from `chat`, but I'm going to select all predicates from `chat/person`. So when I press play, I see all the predicates from `chat/person`.

Or, I could even specify a single predicate, `person/handle` or two predicate, we're going to do `person/handle` and `person/fullName`. So instead of having that star, that asterisk `*` there, we can simply specify that particular predicates that we want to see. 

So I'm going to press play, and instead of all the predicates listed under person, I only see `person/handle`, and `person/fullName`, which is what I specified. 

So I'm going to go back, and I'm just going to select all the predicates from `chat/person`. And there I see that person has its own predicates that are of type `ref`. 

So every person might have multiple favorite artists, and those artists- the information about those artists - isn't shown in our query, because an artist is not a component of a person. Those two subjects exist on their own - they exist independtly. 

But we can continue to follow the graph by going inside of this array with the wildcard `*` in it, and opening up curly bracket. So, the exact same thing we did here, we can do here, so we're kind of, we're doing the exact same thing, but one level deeper in our graph. Now, we can specify the predicate, and do `person/favArtists`-that's the key. And which predicates do we want to see - we want to see all of the predicates associated with that artist. So when we press play, you can see that instead of just showing us the ideas for all of our favorite artist, we can see the artist's names.

And in that way, we can crawl the graph.