### Transcript

Temporary IDs are very important for adding data to a Fluree database. I am going to go over to the user interface and under 'Trasact' I am just going to start talking a little bit about transactions. Every single transaction is inside of square brackets (`[]`), or every single transaction group is inside of square brackets. Inside of those square brackets, individual transaction items are within curly brackets (`{}`). Each of the items within the curly brackets has to have a key of `_id`. And that `_id` can either reference an existing subject, or it can refer to a subject that we haven't created yet. If I want to create a new person, I can't tell FlureeDB what that person's subject `_id` is because I don't know what it is going to be. Subject IDs have special properties and they have to be assigned by FlureeDB. What I can do is, I can use a temporary `_id`, and there are two options for a temporary `_id`- I can just give a temporary `_id` that is the name of the collection into which I am adding the subject. So if I am adding a new "person", I could just put `"person"`. FlureeDB knows that this is a temporary `_id` because if it were referring to an actual subject that already exists in my database, it would be a string of numbers or it would be a unique two-tuple. So, because this string is neither a long integer, nor is it a unique two-tuple, then I know that it is a temporary `_id` for my database. So this transaction (it is not a transaction yet), this snippet of a transaction - we know know that we are going to create a new person. And so the second option for creating temporary IDs is to actually give that temporary `_id` a name. And what I do in order to give it a name is...first, I still need to write the collection name and then I can follow the collection name with any invalid character for a collection name, so I just generally use a dollar sign `$` because that is easy to remember. Then I can follow that `$` with any name that I want to give it. I can do `1`, I can do `myNewPerson`, anything that I want `myNewPerson1` - it doesn't matter. And you will see why it is sometimes useful to write temporary IDs, especially when we start to add data in the next video.
