## 6. Getting Tokens - Part 1

Tokens only relevant for hosted endpoints. Hosted endpoints, with the exception of `/api/signin`, require a token. 

Tokens are tied to a specific authorization record stored in the database and govern the permission of the requests. You can get two types of tokens:

- Master database tokens
- Own database tokens

**Master database tokens** - Master database tokens are retreived via the <a href="/api/hosted-endpoints/hosted-examples#-api-db-signin" target="_blank">api/db/signin</a>endpoint. These tokens give you access to the master hosted FlureeDB database. You are not able to use that token via the user interface, but you can use that token through other interfaces to query the master database. Using that token, you can view only your own databases and accounts. You also need a master database token to get a token for any of your own databases (see below).  

**Own database tokens** - In order to get a token for one of your own databases, you need to submit a request to <a href="/api/hosted-endpoints/hosted-examples#-api-db-token" target="_blank">api/db/token</a>.  In the Authorization header, you need to have a master database token or a token with <a href="/docs/smart-functions/rules#rules" target="_blank">token-creating permissions</a> (see `_rule/ops` in the `Rule Predicates` section). The tokens for your own database can either be connected to a `root` user or to any `_auth` record in the relevant database.  

<div class="challenge">
<h3>Question!</h3>
<br/>
<p>What type of token do you get from the `/api/db/signin` endpoint?</p>
<p>Click "Get Solution" to check your answer. </p>
</div>
<br/>
<br/>


