### Transcript

After the watching last video, you might be wondering: how I knew that collections require names, that predicates require types...how do I know what sort of information I need to include when I create a new collection and when I create a new predicate?  And the answer, as you might have guessed can be found in the documentation. I have a link to the documentation underneath this video, and in that documentation there is a section called [System Collections.](https://docs.flur.ee/docs/infrastructure/system-collections) And in System Collections, you can click on all the different collections that are built in to every single database in Fluree.

This might be a little confusing, but our schemas, our collections and predicates, is stored in Fluree in the same way as every other piece of information is stored Fluree which is something that gives Fluree some interesting features but might be a little confusing at times. So our collection is stored in its own collection and predicate is stored in its own collection. So, if we click on collection, we can see all the different predicates that belong to collection - a name, a doc, a specDoc and a version. We only used one, we only used `_collection/name`, but we can use all these other predicates and we can specify all these other predicates.  And here is a description and some links for more information.

** Doc links here **

  And then in predicates, we can see all these predicate predicates - like I said it can make it a little confusing at first or maybe a little confusing at first. We use a lot of those first ones - we use `_predicate/name`, `_predicate/doc`, `_predicate/type`, `_predicate/unique` and there is a lot more that you can choose from. And if we scroll down or if we just select, there's also predicate types. So these are all the supported predicate types in our database. We can use 'string' which is text, 'refs' (references), 'tags', 'ints', 'longs', 'bigint' - a whole list of types that our predicates can be. 
  
  ** Doc links here **

  You can also also see all of these built-in system collections and predicates if you go to your user interface. And I am going to just show you the predicates. Make sure you're in FlureeQL, and you select query, and you can `"{select":["*"], "from":"_predicate"`. And `select":["*"]`  means select all. So you can see, the first things are going to be all the predicates that we created, but if you go all the way to the bottom - you can just scroll through all of these predicates that begin with an underscore.  So remeber that our predicates are name-spaced, which means that there prefixed with the name of the collection that they belong to. So all of these underscored collections are built in system collections.  So, we have `"_block"`. So this 'block' collection has all sorts of 'block' metadata.  A lot of this is automatically generated and some of it that you can specify yourself. But we have `"_block/previousHash`, `"_block/transactions"`, but if we scroll through this we can see all these 'predicate/predicates', `"_predicate/unique"`, `"_predicate/multi"` and we keep scrolling... `"_tag"` and all the different predicates for 'tag', all the different predicates for collections. So, we get even create our own predicates gets and add them to collections for example. We can have a collection, like 'collection/favoriteBook' even though that doesn't make any sense, but we can add it there.
  
  And then for every collection, we can specify a 'favoriteBook' for that collection - if we wanted to. We keep going, and we see that there's a built-in 'user' collection, and that has built-in predicates, etc. And the deeper you get in to Fluree and the more you understand the interworkings of Fluree, the more relevant these built-in collections are - the more you want to understand how they work and maybe add to them, modify them and read about them. So, like I mentioned at the beginning, the docs are your friends - so that they have all the information that you need and I have a link to those specific sections below:

[System Collections](https://docs.flur.ee/docs/infrastructure/system-collections)



