### Transcript

In this section of videos, we're going to be learning how to perform basic queries in Fluree, but before we do this, we need to make sure that we have the same data in our database, so that avoids any confusion. 

So what we're going to do is make sure that we have a fresh database in Fluree, and you can learn how to do this in the earlier sections, and you can add the Basic Schema that's in our documentation. 

So if you go to `docs.flur.ee` in `Getting Started`, there's a basic schema. You can scroll down, and we're going to quickly add all four collections, `person`, `chat`, `comment`, `artist` that are part of the Basic Schema, so we make sure that we're in any given database, we're in `FlureeQL`, we have `Transact`, and we can submit this transaction. 

Your results will look different than mine, depending on the format that you're using, but this isn't a video about transacting, we're just using this to get started. 

Then you need to add predicates. So, just copy and paste the transaction into your database, and you don't need to understand any parts of this transaction or anything like that. Again, this is not a video about transacting, we're just getting a schema so we can form some queries. 

So now, we've added our collections, we've added our predicates. Finally, we need to add some sample data. So this is my third transaction, it's my sample data. I press enter, and if you've just copied and pasted the three transactions from this section into a fresh database, you shouldn't get any errors or anything like that. 

If you do get any errors, it might be because you don't actually have a fresh database, you might have collections in there that have the same name as the collections we're adding, something like that. 

You'll get an error message, and you can check the text of that error message to help you figure out what went wrong.
