### Transcript

In this video we are going to be talking a little bit more about the `"select"` porton of our query. So, all of the queries in the previous video have been things like `"select": ["*"], "from": "comment"`, `"select": ["*"], "from": "person/handle", "jdoe"`, we have just selected everything from a given subject or a group of subjects. 

In this video, we are going to talk a little bit more about this part of our query - the `"select":["*"]` part. So, I am just going to perform a `"select": ["*"], "from": "person"` to see all of our people. And we will see that the results of this query are a little hard to read. It might be useful if we were piping this right in to an application, but if we are reading this it is a little difficult to read. 

Let's say I don't really care about a person's favorite numbers or a person's favorite artists...I just want to know a person's 'handle'. so instread of `"[*]"`, I can do `"person/handle"`. And now the only thing that I will see is people's, exactly person, `"person/handle"`. I don't see any other information. If I want to select multiple predicates, I can add them into my array here. So, `"select": ["person/handle", "person/fullName", "person/favNums"]`. So I have three different predicates that I am selecting `"from"` for all the `"person"` subjects in my database. So now I see, if a person has a `"person/handle"`, the 'handle' shows up, if they have a `"fullName"`, the 'full name' shows up, and if they have favorite numbers, etc. those show up in my result. And if we even add a `["*"]` in here but the `["*"]` will just override all of our specifications and will just select everything for our particular people. And this `"select"` key and the value of that key mirrors the way our results are going to display.

So, I can even `"select": ["handle", "fullName", and "favNums"]`. So, if you have seen any of the 'Transact' videos, you know that a lot of times, the first part of a predicate name - which is the collection followed by a slash - can be inferred if we are selecting from that particular collection. And so you will see that when I selected `["person/handle", "person/fullName", "person/favNums"]`, I actually saw in my result 'person/handle', 'person/fullName, and 'person/favNums' appear. But if we `"select": ["handle", "fullname", "favNums"], "from": "person"`, when When we press play, we only see 'handle', 'favNums', and 'fullName' appear  in our results.

And you will see that this feature is prevalent throughout all of our `"select"` queries. So the format of the items in the select key will reflect the format of our results. So later on, when we do things like crawl the graph - you will see that the format of our select key will mirror the ways in which the result of our graph crawling will appear. And again, if you don't know what that means yet, it is ok, it is just a little foreshadowing into what we are going to be doing later in these videos.

So just as a recap, in this video what we did was we talked a little bit more about that `"select"` key. And in the `"select"` key we can select `["*"]` or we can select particular predicates.
