### Transcript

Every single update to Fluree creates a new block. That block contains all of the flakes, or all of the atomic updates to the database at that point in time. 

It is possible to query the blocks, and find out all of the updates that were made during that block.

So the first thing that is useful for us to know - is just to know what block we're on.

And we can issue any given query, here I'm issuing select `*` from `_collection`, making sure I have the `Query` endpoint selected, and I press play.

And at the top of my results, or at the bottom, or it might be displayed a little bit differently, depending on the version, but somewhere in your results, you'll see a key, `"block"`, and a value, `8`. 

So that means there are 8 blocks in this database that I'm looking at right now. 

If I want to find all of the flakes associated with a particular block, I need to make sure I select "block" -  which means it is going to send my request to the proper endpoint- the block endpoint. 

And I can write my query. 

In order to write a block query, the only key that you need, and the only key that you can have, is a block key. And the value of that key can be an integer. 

So if I specify, block 1, I will see all of the flakes associated with block 1. 

So these are all of the updates that happened in block 1. And block 1 is initializing the database, so this is the creation of all built-in database collections and predicates. 

And you'll see that it says, `"s"`, `"p"`, `"o"`, `"t"`, `"op"`, `"exp"`. And those stand for subject, predicate, object, time, operation, and expiration. And you can learn more about that in either the Flake video or in the Flake section of the documentation.

But this a flake, or an atomic update. This is the subject that we're updating, a particular predicate for that subject that we're updating, the object of the predicate, a given point in time, and a true or false - are we adding this or are we retracting this. 

I can issue this query as of any block, so for example, block 4. And this is when I created collections. My four collection - chat, comment, person, and artist. 

I can issue a query as of block 8. And we know we're on block 8, or at least, I'm on block 8. So if I tried to issue a query as of block 9, it's just going to return an empty array, because I don't have any updates yet for block 9.

I can also do a range. I can specify that I want to see all the flakes in blocks 1, 2, and 3. And this is an inclusive range, so, it's going to show me all of the blocks from block 1, block 2, and block 3.

If, for example, I wanted to see all of the blocks from block 5 to the most recent block, I can issue this query, so block 5, block 6, block 7, and block 8 are going to appear. But if I didn't know, for example, what block I'm on, I could just omit the last item in that array. And say, if I have a single integer inside of hard brackets, then the database assumes I want to see all of the flakes from the block that I specified, block 5, until the present, whatever that might be. 

So, as you see, the results don't change when I issue this query, as when I issue this query. 

But if I didn't know what block I was on, or I just wanted to be concise, I could use this query, block, in hard brackets, 5. 

In addition to specifying integer blocks, I can also specify times. So I can use ISO-8601 formatted string of ISO-8601 formatted string or ISO-8601 formatted durations to look at the flakes as of a certain block.

So here, I'm going to specify 2018, or sorry, December 20th, 2018 at a certain time. This is in Greenwich Mean Time. 

And what the database is going to do is look at this time, convert it to an instant, and figure out what block I was on as of that instant. 

And, so if I issue this query, it's going to return all the flakes as of that particular block. 

I can also use an ISO-8601 formatted duration, and this is standard duration format, so you can look up online, or look up in our documentation how to write this format. 

But with this format, it specifies a certain amount of time from the present, so "time ago" is another way to think about it. 

So, for example, I can figure out what updates were made, during the block that I was on one hour ago. So, it's still block 8, the same block as now. 

But I can also do twenty four hours ago. Alright, so this database didn't exist twenty four hours ago. 

Or four hours ago.

So, you see that this is sometimes easier to issue my block query as of a certain amount of time ago. 

And if you go to docs.flur.ee, in 'Block Query', you can see that there's a lot of different options for how to issue your blocks, and how to specify which flakes you want to see, the flakes from which blocks.