### Transcript

FlureeDB allows for queries that use recursion. I am going to move to our user interface, and in the basic schema that we have a peredicate called `"person/follows"` and that `"person/follows"`predicate allows you to reference a different person. So, for example: Jane follows Bob, Bob follows Daniel, Daniel follows Brenda, etc. So the first thing I am going to do is, or what I have actually done already, I have issued a transaction that gives every person every person in my database (I have three people: `"jdoe"`, `"zsmith"`, and `"lpodlog"`) a person that they follow. `"jdoe"` follows `"zsmith"`, `"zsmith"` is following `"lpodlog"`, and `"lpodlog"` is following `"jdoe"` - so it is kind of a chain.

And I am going to go over to my query interface, and I am just going to select every person's handle and every person's `"person/follows"`. Then I will press "play". And there you can see I have `"person/handle": "lpodlog"` and whatever person `"lpodlog"` follows,`"person/handle": "zsmith"` and whatever person they follow, and `"person/handle": "jdoe"` and whatever person they follow. But I can expand because `"person/follows"` is a reference, I can expand this part of my query to actually show me a `"person/handle"` and a `"person/follows"`. So now I press "play" again, and I see, so let's just look at one single person...I see that this person with `"person/handle": "lpodlog"` has a reference in `"person/follows"` to another person and that person is `"jdoe"`. And for `"jdoe"`, we see that `"jdoe"` follows another person and we only see the `"_id"`. And the same thing happens here in `"zsmith"` with `"lpopdlog"`, and the same thing here `"jdoe"` follows `"zsmith"`. But we know that this relationship can span any number of steps - imagine you have a social network - you could have one person follows another person, and you are connected to them ten steps away or twelve steps away or something like that. And, so we should be able to follow this relationship of `"person/follows"` any number of times and we actually can.

We use a sub-select option which is `"_recur"` and so if we go to [Advance Query - Recursion](/docs/query/advanced-query#recursion) there is an explanation of how to use `"_recur"`, but we are just going to do this here in this video. So, inside of my sub-select part of my query (which is this), I have a key of `"person/follows"` and I have a value of all of the predicates that I want to see. I can expand this array further and add a new map. And that map has my sub-selection, which is `"_recur"` and the value for the recur key is any number. So that tells me how many times I want to recur. So I put recur `0`, and then I don't even see what I saw before because I am telling it - don't even follow that relationship once. If I do `"_recur": 1`, it follows that relationship once. If I do `"_recur": 2`, it follows that relationship two times. So we can see `"lpodlog"` follows `"jdoe"` follows `"zsmith"` & `"zsmith"` follows `"lpodlog"` follows `"jdoe"`, etc. If I do `"_recur": 3`, I don't see anything because if the recursion starts to loop back on itself then we don't see any results. So, if I do `"_recur": 30`, I don't see anything different because `"zsmith"` is following `"lpodlog"` - so it kind of went full circle.
