### Transcript
When we issue a query, there are several options that we can include in our query. If we go the 'Documentation', we go to 'Basic Query' and then 'Select Clauses' (and I am already there) - it will show me all of the possible keys that I can include in my query. We have already talked about the `select` key and all of the particular values that you can have for that `select` key. We talked about the `from` key and the values could be in that `from` key. But there are three other options that we could have: we could have a `limit`, a `block`, and a `component`. In this particular video we are going to be talking about `limit` and `block`. `component` is something that we are going to be talking about a little bit later.

So, if we go to our user interface, I am going to `"select": ["handle"], "from": "person"`, and if I don't specify a `"limit"`, it will just show me all of my results - I think, up to a certain point. I think up to 100 in our user interface, but I could limit the number of results that appear by adding a `"limit"` key to my query and putting an integer after it. So, like `"limit": 2` will show me 2 results, `"limit": 1` will show me 1 result, `"limit": 0` - I am niot sure why I would ever issue that one, will show me no results.  I can do `"limit": 100` and even though I don't have 100 people in my database, it will just show me up to 100 - which is all of my subjects. My 3 people in my database. In addition, so that was the `limit` option.

Another option that I can specify is the `"block"` option. So, let's go back to our documentation. `"block"` is not required and it can several things: it can be a time-travel query specified by block number, an integer, a duration, or wall-clock time as an ISO-8601 formatted string. 

So, I am going to show you first what happens if we query as of a particular block integer. And Fluree, like in most blockchains, every single time you have an update, that creates a new block. And if you issue any queries or issue any new transactions, you will be able to see the block that is created as of that transaction. And different versions of Fluree will actually display the block number in your queries or in your transactions. So we know that as of block 1, the very first block in our database, we didn't have any people in our collection - we didn;'t even have a `person` collection. So this `block` is pretty much a "time-travel" piece to our query.  So, if we remove this `block` - this is our full query, and by adding a `block`, it is reversing our database to a certain point in time and issuing this particular query. This is going to throw an error because as of block 1, we didn't have a `person` collection. As of block 5 in my personal database, I do have a `person` collection - so I can go to block 5, and it's not going to throw an error. But I didn't have an people in there so it is going to show up empty. I know that as of block 6 I had two people, so it will show me two people. And as of block 7, I had three people so it will show me three people. 

And not only can I add a `block` option by specifying an integer, but I can also specify an ISO-8601 formatted string. Which you can look up online, or you can see in our documentation an example of that. But something that is a little bit easier to write is a duration string - so this is also an ISO-8601 format, so you can online find different lessons and descriptions of this particular format. But I think it is pretty easy to pick-up and we also have an explanation of that format in our docs. So a duration string specifies a certain period of time from the present. So, if my duration string is `P` 1-hour, then that is going to show me the result of my query as of 1-hour ago. So we are going to issue a query, as of duration - which is `P`, and a certain time ago - which is `T`, 1-hour, so `1H` (`PT1H`) So what did selecting `handle` from all of my `people` look like as of 1 hour ago? It actually looks the same. What about 1 hour 10 minutes ago? alright, 1 hour 30 minutes ago. So 1 hour 30 minutes ago, I didn't have this `person` collection. But 1 hour 20 mins ago, I still didn't have this `person` collection. 1 hour 5 minutes ago, I had a `person` collection and I had three people in there. And obviously the results of this particular query are going to depend on your database. So how long ago did you add people? How long ago did you maybe add a third person or add sample data in there? It is really going to depend. But "underneath the hood", what this particualr query does is it converts our duration string to a block. So, it figures out what block were we on as of 1 hour and 5 minutes ago. And it rewinds the database to that block and it shows me the result as of that block. 
