## Resources Mentioned in This Video 

1. [Download Fluree](https://www.flur.ee/)
2. [Direct Download Link](https://s3.amazonaws.com/fluree-releases-public/fluree-latest.zip)

Note: The start up shell script if you're using 0.9.5 or above is `fluree_start.sh`.

### Transcript
These are instruction for downloading Fluree from our website if you have a Mac. First thing you need to do is go to [flur.ee](https://www.flur.ee/), scroll to the middle of the page, click "Download" and "Download" again. 

This will begin downloading the latest version of Fluree as a zipfile. Depending on your connection, this should take about a minute. 

Once that is done downloading, if you go to your Downloads folder, you'll see a zip file with the latest version of Fluree. Double-click to unzip, and you'll have a folder that says "Fluree" dash and whatever the latest version is at the time of your download. 

Inside of that folder there will be several files, including a properties file to configure your Fluree, a version file, a shell script to launch Fluree, a JAR file that contains Fluree, a CHANGELOG with the changes between the different versions of Fluree, and a license agreement. 

In order to launch Fluree, you need to open up a new Bash window, and go into your `Downloads` folder, into the folder that you just unzipped. In my case, I `cd`, I "change directory" into `Downloads/flureeDB-0.9.1`. If I click enter, and then I type, `ls`, I can see all the same files in my terminal as I see in my folder, and I know I'm in the right place. 

In order to launch Fluree with all of the default properties, I can type `./flureeDB_transactor.sh`. When I click enter, a new instance of Fluree will begin to download. When I launch Fluree for the first time, it has to create a new network of databases, so it takes a few seconds to create those databases. 

And once it is done, it will log a message that says `Starting web server on port: 8080`. If you don't change the port number, and like I mentioned, we just used all of the default configuration, it'll launch on port 8080.

If I go into a browser, I can go to [localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/), and I'll see the user interface on that page. The user interface looks different depending on the version that you're using. 

I'll close out of here, and I can exit my instance of Fluree by typing `ctrl + c` (in my terminal). When I exit Fluree, it doesn't destroy the databases. The databases that I created are safe inside of my Fluree folder. You'll see that now, there is additionally, there is a `fdbdata` folder, and that contains all of my databases. If I did anything to those databases, if I issued any transactions, all of that is recorded in these folders. Again, depending on your version, the actual look and the actual configuration of this folder is going to be a little different. 

You'll also see that after the first time that you launch Fluree, you'll have a defaul private key that is created. 

In order to launch Fluree, I do the exact same thing again. I make sure that I am in the right place. So here, I am still in `flureeDB-0.9.1`, and I can type `./flureeDB_transactor.sh`to launch it. So the way that we start Fluree up the first time, is the same way that Fluree launches every single time. And again, we need to wait for that message that says, `Starting web server on port: 8080`. 

Again I can go to my browser, go to local host, and my user interface will be right there. 

If I want to change any of the configurations that come with Fluree, you can find those in the docs. And if you go to Getting Started: Installation Config Options, there is a whole list of different options that you can have. So far example, if I want to change the port that I launch on to port 8081, I can do so by adding a flag that says `-Dfdb-api-port=8081`. 

So, what I'm going to do is `ctrl + c` out of this instance of Fluree. I'm going to delete that data, because I didn't do anything to those databases, I didn't really need them. And I can launch Fluree again, that says, `-Dfdb-api-port=8081`. I press enter, and you'll see that the Java option is right there. And that means that my instance of Fluree will launch on web server port 8081. 

Alright, that's all for this video. Thank you!

